# Jumarket API

A Jumarket API is a RESTful application that provides resources for managing products, categories, shopping carts, and sales. This API allows an e-commerce system to manage product inventory, organize products into categories, and process sales made by customers. This API was developed for the Tqi Kotlin bootcamp challenge. The development followed the provided guidelines.

The main idea behind the solution is to start the sale with an empty shopping cart and gradually add items in the quantities required by the customer (and remove them if necessary). As items are added or removed, the costs per item and the total cost of the cart are automatically updated. To complete the sale, a "Sale" object is created, containing information such as the total amount, payment method, and the date and time of the sale.

## Technologies Used

- Java
- Spring Boot
- Spring Data JPA
- MySql 
- Flyway (Database Migration)
- Swagger (OpenAPI) for API documentation
- Jakarta Validation for data validation
- Kotlin (Programming Language)
- JUnit for testing

## Features

The API has the following features:

1. Product Management:
   - Creation of new products with information such as name, description, price, and stock quantity.
   - Update of existing product information.
   - Listing all registered products.
   - Searching products by name.
   - Searching products by category.

2. Category Management:
   - Creation of new categories with name and description.
   - Listing all registered categories.
   - Searching categories by name.

3. Shopping Cart Management:
   - Creation of new shopping carts.
   - Adding products to shopping carts.
   - Removing products from shopping carts.

4. Sales Management:
   - Creation of new sales associated with a shopping cart.
   - Listing all sales made.

## How to Run the Application

1. Clone this repository to your local machine using the command:
git clone https://github.com/your-username/jumarket-api.git

2. Make sure you have Java (version 8 or higher) and Kotlin installed on your machine.

3. Navigate to the project folder and execute the following command to compile and run the application: ./mvnw spring-boot:run
   
4. After successful execution, the API will be available at http://localhost:8080.

## API Documentation

The API has interactive documentation generated by Swagger (OpenAPI). To access the documentation, simply visit the following link after running the application:
http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html

The documentation will provide detailed information about the available endpoints, required parameters, response status codes, and examples of request and response.

## Testing the API

You can use tools like Postman or cURL to test the API endpoints. Additionally, the interactive Swagger documentation allows you to test the endpoints directly without the need for external tools.

## Final Remarks

This API is a solution for managing products, categories, shopping carts, and sales and can be integrated into an e-commerce system to facilitate e-commerce operations.

Some improvements can be implemented to enhance the system further. One such improvement is the introduction of user roles, differentiating between those who can manage categories and products and those who cannot. By incorporating user roles, we can prevent regular users or customers from making modifications to the database. This ensures that only authorized personnel have the capability to perform critical actions, maintaining data integrity and security.

The addition of user roles not only protects the database but also allows for better control and organization within the system. Administrators or privileged users can efficiently manage categories and products while ordinary users can focus on their shopping experience without the risk of inadvertently altering essential data. Implementing these user roles adds an extra layer of protection and empowers businesses to tailor access rights as needed, promoting a more robust and secure shopping platform.

Please note that this is just a brief description of the API, and there are other layers, such as services and repositories, that were not detailed in this README. Make sure to understand the complete application structure before implementing or testing anything.

Developed by: [Gustavo Afonso Chaves de Brito](https://github.com/gustavoacbrito)


